OPERATING INSTRUCTION B / 2021


                TRANSPORT, ERECTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PROCEDURE FOR
                                  DISTRIBUTION TRANSFORMERS
             Note: The unit is Pressure free at the Reference Temperature, as indicated on the Test Certificate
                                           – For Hermetically sealed units only –

The intent of the document is to provide an overview during the transportation, assembly, commissioning, and
maintenance activities performed once the unit had been released form factory. More detail information can be sourced
from our offices on request. Information on Hermitically sealed, sealed with gas cushion, Free Breathing with Conservator
and OLTC units is provided below.
Please note that when indicated, where applicable, that the information for the correct transformer type is utilised.

1. General Information (Hermetically sealed units)
   Hermetic transformers are completely sealed and does not have a gas cushion or conservator to adjust to the
		     changes in oil volume caused by temperature changes. The corrugated tank is designed to adjust to changes in
		     volume by the elasticity of the cooling corrugation.
		     This unit normally does not have an oil-level indicator since refilling and checking of the cooling and insulating
		     fluids is not required.
		     The filling of the tank is performed in such a way that there is no negative or excess pressure existing at a
		     defined oil temperature (defined above in red). This oil temperature, the maximum oil temperature rise, and
		     the gradient between the windings and the oil, is calculated for each type of unit. For this reason, we
		 recommend NOT to open the oil filling plug, ventilate, or bleed the bushings after delivery of the transformer.
		     For any works which requiring opening of the transformers, e.g., mounting of a pressure relief valve or any
		     other monitoring device, the exchange of bushings and/or gaskets, please observe the instructions given in
		     section 4 ‚Maintenance and Repairs, Section 4.5 and 4.6‘ when draining and refilling the oil respectively.

2. Transport
   2.1 Road transport, use vehicles with compressed-air suspension is preferred.
   2.2 On arrival of the goods, any damages incurred during the transport, shall be communicated to the forwarding
		     agent responsible for the delivery.
   2.3 Paint damage should be repaired immediately.
   2.4 Only use the lifting lugs on top of the cover to lift/offload the transformer.
   2.5 The fixing lugs attached to the tank, or the edge of the cover, only serves to secure the transformer during
		     transport, and is NOT intended for lifting the complete transformer.



3. Assembly and Commissioning
   3.0 The operator is responsible to provide measures to protect against contact with live parts.
   3.1 Fix the transport rollers if applicable and move the transformer to designated position.
   3.2 If the transformer is fitted with an oil gauge, check the oil level prior to commission, and refill when required.
   3.3 In the event of a Free breathing unit, fit the supplied with dehydrating breathers
		     3.3.1 On arrival ensure that the filling plug on the conservator is closed.
		     3.3.2 Check the colour of the drying beads inside the breather (orange is satisfactory, if 2/3 of the beads is
			            colourless, exchange the contents).
		     3.3.3 Fit the breather.
		      3.3.4 Fill the breather oil bowl to the desired level (oil markings provided).
   3.4 Earth the transformer to the grounding screw.
